GEM OVERVIEW / BULLET POINTS

	Typical Client
		4-30 Databases
			- larger is too hard a sale (although good for name dropping)
			- smaller the product is useless
		SQL Server and/or Sybase (Oracle, DB2 in Release 2)
		Windows or Unix or Mixed
		Lights out / Outsourcers
	Ideal Client
		smart guy with limited db expertise
		guys who are hiring a dba!
		consultanting firms
		companies that outsource
	Market Size
		Very Large - Automation of commercial back end databases is a LARGE untapped market
			with a variety of large tool vendors - all of which  compete in a different
			space
		Difficult to penetrate
			historically most products were "small" and gui driven
				( GEM is a big product )
			client side products very successful
				dbartisan/cast at 3000/workstation
				these are easier to distribute and maintain
	Typical Sale
		Extreme willingness to pay
			- cost is no object (think percent of salary)
			- Moderate Cost To Install ( 4-8 hours on site for a large client )
				must make installation cost billable
			- Ideal is $3,000 to $30,000 for the sale (1000$ per database?)
			- Support contract is where the money is !!!
				30-50% of initial sale as recurring revenue
	Current Objectives
		A Plan
		Reference Clients
		Proof Of Concept
			- Feedback
		Business Plan
		Marketing Blurbs
		Talking Points

Talking points
	Completely automate your db administration workflow
		- Cut time required for routine administration in a third
			( save 2/3rds by automating everything )
		- Dba's can focus on proactive systems management
			( just fix the problem - no need to figure out what it is )
		- Morning review process enables proactive server management
		- Significantly lower your risk of outages

	Complete Database Administration Toolkit
		- 15 years providing dba solutions
		- This is the ONLY DBA Automation Environment designed specifically for Sybase and Sql Server dba's
		- Synergy with vendor solutions
		- Provide a microsoft level automation for a sybase shop (if they are sybase)
		- Provide sybase level customization for a microsoft shop

	System Monitoring & Management Environment
		- comfort level

	Low Risk
		- agentless
		- central workstation/server
		- 1-2 hours to set you up and get you working

The following are my notes on pricing plans

Project GEM is a major effort designed to help you manage business critical infrastructure at commercial organizations.
It is expected that commercial users will support the project financially.  Non profit organizations and indviduals
are welcome to use this software for free.

Two pricing plans are under consideration.  The first entails making GEM free, but only including 'core' functionality.
Output reports will contain a non-removable 'shareware' notice stating that commercial organizations with more than 5
database servers are expected to purchase a commercial license after a 30 day trial period.  The commercial license
will remove the shareware notice and enables product support.  The downside here is that installation is by far the
most complex part of GEM and this plan can provide no installation support.

	+ might be able to get shareware base
	- can not provide support
	- doubt it will maximise revenue

The second plan is to use licensed consultants / distributors to resell GEM directly.  These 'Certified Product
Specialists' will be paid percentage of the sales and support fees in return for installation and production support.
Training will be available for qualified individuals who are interested in being Certified. If you are a consultant
or distributor and are interested in reselling GEM, please contact us.

	+ best approach
	+ 2-3 hours for training

One strong target market is companies that outsource databse operations.  These guys typically have a high workload
and will benefit from automation.

GEM permits easy expansion and incorporation of your own monitoring and reporting tools. SQL Technologies can
customize GEM to your systems management environment and can create monitoring specific to your business applications.
Contact us for more information
